have the honor and pleasure of being with Mr.
Sterling Evans at his hacienda out at
Brackettville, and we're chatting about his
recollections. Mr. Evans, you graduated in 1921.
You were the valedictorian. When did you learn you
were the valedictorian?
How
long was your speech?
And it was in Guyon Hall. Was Guyon Hall new then?
The
president was Dr. Bezal. Was he the president at
A&M then?
Do you have any recollections of him?
I'm going up to interview his daughter soon. She is
95 and living up in Oklahoma City. So I'm looking
forward to interviewing her. Let's jump forward.
You became active in former student activities in
the 1940s. What led you to become active? Did
someone encourage you to, or?
What was his name?
All right, we'll get it later. And what were your
first leadership, former student leadership
activities? .
Yes, sir.
.
I said,
Governor, I do want to go to school. I said, yes, but
I promise you, your appointment, I'll try to do a
thing about it, my dear Governor. While he's
Governor? Yes, that's right. So I went ahead and
appointed him. I could have done it with one next to
me. I didn't do it because I
promised you. Anyway, we had a president, Senator
Moore. Bill Moore from? Brown. Yes,
sir. Senator. He wasn't going to approve
anybody's report, so he reported it and it worked
out very good. I just wanted to say thank you. How
about you? Who
were your biggest allies on the board favoring
coeducation?
. . . . . .
. . . .
.
Now, John Lindsay was the former student
president.
John
Lindsay
was the
former student president. John Lindsay was the
former student president. And
Dick
Hervey helped him, didn't he? I guess he did. What
is a good one? Now, Mr. Zachary, was he on the board
of directors with you then?
He was not for coeducation?
And let's see, was Al Davies, was he on the board
yet? Dick Goodson?
Was Mr. Rudder for co-education? Mr. Rudder
was
louder than anybody else. They couldn't change
the ruling. When
did you personally start favoring coeducation?
Before World War II? Was there any event or
anything that...
What about making the Corps voluntary? Did you
favor that? Brother came to it. For a while, it
wasn't very popular. So the boy didn't want to go
in. So he said, we've got to change the ruling. We
always had a rule at that time. Everybody
had a rule. So he came to the board and said, we've
got to make changes. And the way before, he said,
OK, but you won't be in my favor. He said, all right,
you can't do it. Anyway, Rutter was a great fellow.
Yes, sir.
Now,
you said a while ago, before we turned on the
machine, that if you had been on the board when Mr.
Rutter was selected, you might not have voted for
him. I wouldn't have voted for him. What do you know
about college education? It's a boring
experience. Who
was it, as far as you know, that identified Mr.
Rudder to be the new president? He was on the board.
I was part of that. He came in first president. I was
in. Where did he first come from? 1958, I believe.
Where did he come from? I believe as executive vice
president.
He came before the board. He already
established himself. He established himself
very quickly. For a publication. Yes. He talked
about it very quickly. Now,
the fact that he was from the hill country, do you
think that helped him any?
No. Now, he also knew John Connolly well, and you
knew Mr. Connolly well, did you not? Did that
friendship help A&M? What
about connections with President Johnson? Did he
help A&M, LBJ?
Was there ever any discussion about the admission
of black students of racial integration?
No. Did anybody oppose it that you recall? I have
never heard of any opposition. And Mr. Rudder
handled that with great skill. He was a great
fraud. Yes, sir, he was. Do you remember any
anecdotes or stories about Mr. Rudder that you can
share? I
don't remember.
We
were
running.
We were running. Great schedule. You saw that. We
worked for it. Good stuff I did for it. I got a hold of
John that. John did a job to get this back. But it
doesn't, if we don't got a former student meeting,
we would have that day. But I didn't know a thing
about that. So I definitely had to go through that.
John did a great job. Oh, yes. Well, he still is. He
still is. One of the greatest presidents in the
universe. I particularly am grateful that he is so
interested in the library because I share with you
that interest. What caused you to be interested in
the library? Well, school. Tommy Bell. Library.
Goodwin. Horner.
You know where that, the Gentosis Society. You
ever heard of Gentosis Society? No, sir. It was
very important to me. Benjamin Franklin used it.
Hey, go look at it. When I have a meeting and talk
about what's going on, I go back home and talk about
it. I have 40 of them. He got the first library book.
Yes. He got the first . He was a good man.
You know what I mean? We got the . You
know, he I used
to wear a pair of paper sometimes. So he had the
paper, and he was going to talk about it with the
boys. We had that. He was a great person.
Who were some of the other faculty members when you
were a student that had a very positive influence
on you? .
I
remember, I prayed, how could you do? Don't go
outside. Because of this guy. And he was a good one,
too. Worked like a different person. But I, I, I
feel a person.
Straight
A. Now, what was your major? Agriculture.
Agriculture. Now, you grew up, you went to high
school in Uvalde. Why did you go to A&M instead of
some other school? Okay. Okay. Did
you ever visit A&M before you enrolled there?
Let's see who this is.
Did you visit College Station before you went over
there to enroll? Yes, sir. How did you get there? By
train. Did you go on the train?
Train. I stayed all night between trains. I went
over to the station. How did you do that? Three or
four hours. And
then you were in College Station how long? Was it
overnight? Did you spend the night there?
How many in your high school graduating class?
How many?
Now, at Uvalde High School, how many graduated
when you did? 21. 21. And about how many went to
college?
I don't remember. Did you know that you were going
to major in agriculture when you got there? Was
that always your major?
Yes, I remember that. It was the Army. Yes, sir.
Yes, sir. Where did, in what dormitory did you live
when you got to A&M?
B1.
B1? All right. And can you share with me any of, do
you recall any of the Fish, freshman hazing. What
did the sophomores do to freshmen then? There was
never a lot of them. I remember we won the football,
basketball.
We won the basketball.
We had a car. We had a plane. We had a pilot. All
right.
What were, you said that they beat you some. What
would be the reason that a sophomore would give for
whipping a freshman?
Just did it? Was it normally after supper? And
you all ate in, in Sabeasa? Describe a typical
meal. How was it served? Where did you all sit?
Was Mr. Sabisa still living? Describe him,
please. Oh, you don't remember. Oh, you say the
food was good. What was your favorite Aggie food?
Anything that you could eat, I guess. You went in
September. When did you come home? Did you come
home for Thanksgiving?
I don't remember that. But you didn't go to Houston
or Dallas?
Did
they make court trips then for football games? To
Waco. And you went on the train? Did you spend the
night?
I don't remember that. When you went on the train,
did you all get into any mischief?
Probably did. Tell me about your roommates. Who
was your roommate?
Chemistry major.
Jack Mayhem. Where was he from?
Above Dallas. Let's see it was Mr. Zachary, one of
your classmates. Year after you and Harrington
also.
Describe them as students. Were they good
students? Zachary. Was he an engineering major?
What about Mr. Harrington?
Now, one of my favorite Aggie acquaintances was
Buck Shewitz.
Tell me about your memory of him. Buck Shewitz was a
great fellow. I wanted
to go study at the art.
My father
said, hey, no, son of mine's not going to study art.
So I said, you know, we're going to pick up the
library, go to school, go to the library. And I was
going to go to A&M then. I took classes. They came
and taught one-on-one with you. You couldn't see
it enough.
Now, I noticed in the Longhorn, the yearbook, that
Buck was the art editor. Yes, sir. Did you students
think that Buck was a kind of a character? You're
darn right. He was a character. What kind of goofy
things did he do?
I don't remember. Anything that he wanted to do. He
was a very good student. He was?
Yes. Delightful. Did he get into mischief?
Now, did you become a collector of Shewitt's art?
I know John Lindsay has a fine... Yes. Now, Tell me
when you get tired and we need to quit this. OK.
Let's see.
What was some of your favorite courses that you
took while you were a student? All of them were good
ones. I don't
know. I
recommend, one, do good.
If I decide I'd make good class, good news class, I
would. That's good. Paying is practical, too. I
think, you know, I think it's really, you know. Did
you all do some field work then in agriculture?
Where were the field on the west campus? What did
you all grow? Cotton, corn, what else?
Vegetables. What kind of vegetables?
Turnips. Spinach.
Any tomatoes or lettuce?
When you were taking those courses, what kind of
agriculture did you dream that you were going to
practice? Did you think you were going to be a
rancher?
Yes, sir. Can you recall any of the pranks that you
and your friends pulled off while you were
students? I guess I forget. I don't remember
particularly. Did you fill anybody's room with
water or trash? Yeah, I did.
Did
you ever put an animal in anybody's room? Didn't do
that? Because I've heard of some putting a heifer
in somebody's room overnight or a hog or
something.
Yeah. No,
sir. I don't believe it's there anymore. I believe
it's been leveled. But it was one of the dorms where
you lived?
I remember
when I was a kid. I remember when I was a kid. I
remember when I was a kid. Now,
where was the post office then? At Northgate near
Sabeasa? How often did you get mail from home?
Did you write a letter home regularly?
Now, how did your family pay for you to go to
A&M? $420 off of an acre? Wow. How
often did you all hear news about the war in Europe?
Going
in through the door, I took his hand, and I
remember, I broke his camera, so I got in, and I was
in the first half of the car, and I just, when I got
out of the car, I was like, hey, this car, she's just
over there. Because now, we got into the war almost
the same time you started as a student.
While the war was going on, did any of your close
friends go to Europe and serve in the Army? No,
they were not. No, they were not.
What did you and your friends do when you heard the
war was over? Celebrate. How did you celebrate?
You celebrated by doing what?
Oh, to Brian. Where in Brian did you celebrate?
What was the name of, do you remember where in Bryan
Aggies would celebrate? Now, did those
celebrations ever involve alcohol?
Not even beer? Was there a... And...
When y'all were looking for a date, where did the
young ladies live that y'all dated?
Back home, I guess. How often did girlfriends come
to College Station?
I don't know. Once in a while. And they would come on
the train? Yeah. And y'all met them? Yes, sir.
Where did they spend the night? Somebody's house.
Did that would be faculty? And did they charge
anything for the girls to?
Did you have a favorite faculty member that you?
Who was it?
I don't remember. Did you all celebrate silver
taps then? Where
was it?